Intel, the US computer chip maker, is facing a backlash from China after telling its suppliers not to source products or labour from the region of Xinjiang.

Intel said it had been “required to ensure that its supply chain does not use any labour or source goods or services” from Xinjiang in accordance with restrictions imposed by “multiple governments”.

The United States has accused China of widespread human rights abuses in the predominantly Muslim region of Xinjiang, including forced labour. Beijing has denied the claims.

The Global Times, a tabloid run by the Communist party, called Intel’s statement “absurd”, adding that the company – which earned 26% of its total revenues from China in 2020 – was “biting the hand that feeds it”.

A watchtower at a re-education camp in Xinjiang, china
“What we need to do is to make it increasingly expensive for companies to offend China so their losses outweigh their gains,” the newspaper said in an editorial.

On China’s Weibo microblog service, the singer Karry Wang said he would no longer serve as brand ambassador for Intel, adding in a statement that “national interests exceed everything”.

Other Weibo users called on Chinese citizens to boycott Intel, with one posting under the name “Old Catalan” and saying: “Must resist, do not buy!”

Multinational companies have come under pressure as they aim to comply with Xinjiang-related trade sanctions while continuing to operate in China, one of their biggest markets.

The Global Times said in its editorial that multinationals “should be able to endure, properly handle and balance pressure from all parties”.

Intel could not immediately be reached for comment.

Hong Kong’s oldest university and the territory’s authorities have been accused of rewriting history after cutting up and removing a statue mourning those killed in the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests.

The erasure of the memorial from where it had stood for nearly 25 years came as Beijing has intensified its targeting of political dissent in Hong Kong since the Covid pandemic.

The 8-metre-tall (26ft) Pillar of Shame by the Danish sculptor Jens Galschiøt was one of the few remaining public monuments in Hong Kong commemorating the bloody crackdown that is a taboo topic in mainland China, where it cannot be publicly marked. It had sat on the University of Hong Kong (HKU) campus since 1997, the year the city was handed back to China from Britain.

According to witnesses, university staff late on Wednesday erected floor-to-ceiling sheets and plastic barriers to shield the statue from view. Loud noises from power tools and chains came from the closed-off area for several hours before workmen were seen carrying out the top half of the statue and winching it on a crane towards a waiting shipping container.

“This is a symbolically important move, which fits in with so many other sad recent ones, such as campus democracy walls being stripped of posters,” said Jeffrey Wasserstrom, the author of the book Vigil: Hong Kong on the Brink, and a historian of modern China at the University of California, Irvine.

“There is a recurring theme of disappearances; of objects from campuses and disappearances of people into prisons or exile. What is disappearing in the process – or at least diminishing dramatically, as there are still contrasts – is the sense of Hong Kong universities as radically unlike mainland ones.”
In October, HKU officials ordered the removal of the sculpture, which features 50 anguished faces and tortured bodies piled on one another and commemorates the pro-democracy protesters killed by Chinese troops around Tiananmen Square.

The request was condemned by rights groups, with the international law firm Mayer Brown withdrawing from representing the university on the matter. Security guards have blocked reporters from approaching and tried to stop media outlets from filming.

The statue’s removal came shortly after a decision by HKU’s leadership council on Wednesday. In a statement on Thursday the council said: “The decision on the aged statue was based on external legal advice and risk assessment for the best interest of the university.”

The council said it had received legal advice that the statue risked breaching the city’s crimes ordinance, legislation enacted by the colonial government. HKU did not respond to the Guardian’s questions about which provisions the statue could breach.
The statue will be kept in storage and the university said it would “continue to seek legal advice on any appropriate follow-up action”.

Before Wednesday’s removal, students and activists carried out the annual tradition of cleaning and repainting the statue to commemorate Beijing’s crackdown on protesters. For them, it had been a symbol of Hong Kong’s wider freedoms.

The sculptor, Galschiøt, said he was “shocked and saddened” by the developments. “I’ve asked Hong Kong University to allow me to go and collect it in person, but I received no response,” he said. “If they destroy my work, I’ll seek compensation and demand the remaining pieces to be returned to Europe.

“This is not about the national security law. This is my private property. It’s the Hong Kong law that says the authorities cannot destroy private properties like this.”
Earlier, the artist sent an email to supporters encouraging them to “document everything that happens with the sculpture”. “We have done everything we can to tell [HKU] that we would very much like to pick up the sculpture and bring it to Denmark,” it said.

The sculpture’s removal was also decried by dissidents and activists living overseas. “They have used this despicable act in an attempt to erase this bloodstained chapter of history,” Wang Dan, one of the Tiananmen student leaders who was jailed after the crackdown, and now lives in the US, wrote on Facebook.

Samuel Chu, the president of the Campaign for Hong Kong, said: “Its creation in 1997 was a touchstone for freedom in Hong Kong; its destruction in 2021 would be a tombstone for freedom in Hong Kong.”

Nathan Law, a former Hong Kong pro-democracy lawmaker who fled to Britain last year, said the statue would live on in people’s memories. “The Pillar Of Shame is removed, while memory lives. We must remember what happened on June 4th, 1989. Tiananmen Massacre.” he tweeted.
HKU broke ties with its student union in April and tore down its pro-democracy displays from the campus in July.

Maya Wang, a senior researcher on China at Human Rights Watch, said removing the statue “signifies Beijing’s ever-growing intolerance of dissent in Hong Kong”. She added: “The Chinese government is rewriting history as part of its broader efforts to dismantle a free society, and transform the city into one compliant to the Chinese Communist party.”

A national security crackdown forced the city’s main activist group for the victims of the 1989 Tiananmen crackdown to disband in September. The authorities banned annual candlelight vigils commemorating the massacre in 2020. The vigils, which had been held for the past three decades, drew up to tens of thousands of people.

In the past year, scores of opposition figures have been jailed or fled abroad, as authorities stifled dissent to make the city more “patriotic”.

Hong Kong used to be the one place in China where mass remembrance of Tiananmen was tolerated. There is no official death toll from the massacre but activists believe hundreds, possibly thousands, of people were killed.
It comes after Buckingham Palace announced the Queen had cancelled spending Christmas at Sandringham, Norfolk, amid concerns about the rising levels of the Omicron variant.

Instead, she will spend the day in Windsor, as she did last year.

The palace said it was a personal decision and "reflects a precautionary approach".

It has not yet been confirmed where the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will be spending Christmas.
Last week the Queen announced that she would not be going ahead with her pre-Christmas family lunch.

That was also in response to worries about the spread of the new Covid variant.

Since then, the UK has seen daily Covid case figures surge, with more than 100,000 cases announced for the first time on Wednesday.
During the autumn, the Queen had to withdraw from a series of public events, including the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow and the Remembrance Sunday service, because of health concerns.

But the latest change of plan has been in response to the rapid spread of the new highly mutated variant - amid calls for people to limit contacts during the Christmas festivities.

It will mean missing her traditional family gathering at her Norfolk estate and her attendance at the Christmas morning church service at St Mary Magdalene in Sandringham.

Actor James Franco has admitted having sex with students from his acting school, almost four years after sexual misconduct allegations were made.

The 43-year-old agreed to pay $2.2m (£1.6m) in July after being sued for engaging in "sexually-charged behaviour towards female students".

Speaking on The Jess Cagle Podcast, he said that while teaching, he "did sleep with students, and that was wrong".

He said he had not started the school to lure women for sexual purposes.

Franco was nominated for best actor at the Oscars in 2011 for his starring role in 127 Hours, directed by Danny Boyle, and is also known for his roles in Pineapple Express and the Spider-Man films.

The actor said he had remained quiet over the allegations relating to his school for years because "there were people that were upset with me and I needed to listen".
Sarah Tither-Kaplan and Toni Gaal, who attended Franco's now-defunct Studio 4 acting school, alleged Franco tried to "create a pipeline of young women who were subjected to his personal and professional sexual exploitation in the name of education".

The class action lawsuit - filed in Los Angeles in 2019 - alleged he abused his position and dangled opportunities for roles in his films.

In this case, students claimed they were victims of fraud for paying for the acting school while being sexually objectified and intimidated.

When the allegations first surfaced, Franco said they were "not accurate".

But payments were eventually made to Ms Tither-Kaplan and Ms Gaal, as well as other students who filed complaints.

In excerpts from the podcast made public on Wednesday, Franco said he had been in recovery from sex addiction since 2016 and had "been doing a lot of work" after the allegations against him "and changing who I was".

"I suppose at the time, my thinking was if it's consensual, OK," he told the podcast on SiriusXM.
The comments are the actor's first public attempt to address the allegations at length.

Asked how he could have been unaware of the potential for power dynamics between a teacher and student to skew the concept of consent, Franco responded: "At the time, I was not clear-headed."

It is 17 years since the Gender Recognition Act was enacted in the UK, permitting those aged over 18 to have their acquired gender legally recognised and recorded on a new birth certificate, as long as certain criteria are met. However, for many transgender people the process is outdated, intrusive and bureaucratic.

In order for an individual to have their acquired gender recognised, a person has to prove to a panel of strangers that they will never meet – the gender recognition panel – that they are either feminine or masculine. It has caused a great deal of concern in the transgender community that the panel, in effect, sits in judgment upon them and their transition. Who is anyone to decide whether someone is feminine or masculine enough? Gender identity is no longer as rigid as it once was, thank goodness. Women wear trousers. Some of us choose to eschew makeup altogether, others only on some days. Hair can be long, or short, or shaved off. But there is no way of knowing whether the panel is making judgments based on outdated stereotypes because it is devoid of transparency. Those wishing to transition also require a medical diagnosis of gender dysphoria – a mental health condition, effectively giving the view that being transgender is an illness. They also have to live in their acquired gender for two years (something they need spousal consent for), a pretty arbitrary period of time, and again, upholding stereotypical views of what it is to live as a woman or a man.

In a report published this week, the women and equalities select committee is calling for the requirements to be updated, pretty much in line with the extensive consultation carried out, but not acted on, by the government more than two years ago. This would mean replacing the gender recognition panel, dropping the requirement to have a diagnosis of gender dysphoria and to live in the acquired gender for two years. Gaining a gender recognition certificate would still require a formal statutory declaration – a safeguard that ensures “genuine intent”, and possibly other legal safeguards, but the process would be respectful and accessible.

We spent months speaking to trans rights and women’s rights groups and sought to strike a path that safeguarded the rights of both. They are not zero sum – both can be supported. As the chair of the committee, I spent Tuesday on broadcast media discussing our recommendations. I understand this is a highly contentious issue, with very polarised views, but the correspondence I have received in my inbox over the following 24 hours suggests that the most determined correspondents have not read a word of the report.

The most common objection people have raised is the issue that any changes to the GRA would make it easier for men to legally change their gender, access women’s spaces and pose a serious threat to their safety.

First and foremost, even with our proposed reforms, the process for an individual to have their acquired gender legally recognised is a drawn-out process, with numerous stages to go through. Waiting lists are incredibly long for NHS consultations, and I can think of my own constituents who have waited years for just a referral to one of the very few clinics, before having given up and paid for private treatment they could ill afford. The suggestion that someone could change legal sex on a whim is quite patently nonsense; the process takes years.

The new clinics announced last year were of course welcome, but they had already been commissioned by NHS England and, at only three, are a drop in the ocean compared to what is needed.

Second, we have specifically called for single-sex exceptions to be not only upheld but clarified. We have asked the Government Equalities Office and the Equality and Human Rights Commission not only to improve their guidance for female-only spaces, such as refuges, but to use worked examples, so that there can be no doubt about the right of service providers to restrict use to natal women only. There should also be best practice to provide trans and non-binary inclusive and specific services, including those relating to domestic violence and sexual abuse. Sometimes it will be appropriate to provide exclusive spaces. Those that argue I am against this are plain wrong.

I urge those currently directing the bile and abuse I have received on this issue to read our report in full. Ultimately, the current process is clunky, time consuming and, in many cases, those going through it find it downright cruel. All I have ever sought is to make the GRA kinder, quicker and much more understanding of the needs of transgender people and the concerns of women’s rights groups. Is that so bad? From my email inbox you would have thought so, but I don’t.
Europe is once again seeing a surge of COVID-19 cases — here is our summary of the measures being taken across the continent.

In some parts, the increase has been compounded by the emergence of the new Omicron variant, first detected in South Africa.

Some countries have taken steps targeting the unvaccinated, while programmes are also being rolled out in several nations to vaccinate young children.

Belgium will close cinemas, theatres and other indoor recreational activities as the Omicron spreads.

Museums, libraries and fitness centres will be able to stay open. The Belgian government is also urging people to get tested ahead of the holidays.

Meanwhile, thousands protested in Brussels on Sunday (December 19) against the government’s measures including health care workers who will need to be vaccinated from April or risk losing their jobs.

Infections have been decreasing recently but the new variant already represents 27% of the new cases in the country, authorities said.

Spain will make mask-wearing outdoors mandatory once again, with the prime minister set to pass a law by decree.

The country reported record-high COVID-19 infections as the Omicron variant takes hold.

Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez also offered to deploy the armed forces to help regions step up vaccinations. Sánchez said he is targeting 80% of the 60-69 age group to have received booster shots by the end of next week, among other goals.

COVID-19 tests for professional use will temporarily be placed on sale at pharmacies, amid a reported shortage of tests as well.

Authorities in Catalonia, one of the country's most populous regions, announced on Monday they were bringing back restrictions which include a 1 am curfew, the closure of nightlife, and capacity limits. The measures will come into force on Thursday evening following approval from the High Court of Justice of Catalonia. They will last for an initial period of 15 days.

It will affect all towns of more than 10,000 inhabitants where the incidence exceeds 250 cases per 100,000 population over a seven-day period, which currently is all of them.

Several regions have also introduced stricter measures for the unvaccinated ahead of the Christmas season, extending the use of the COVID-19 certificate to enter public places such as bars and restaurants. Many have protested the newly imposed health passes.

More than 80% of the Spanish population is already immunised, but fears of the Omicron variant have triggered a vaccination drive.

Christmas concerts and other events have been cancelled in Greece under new restrictions announced Thursday that include a general mask mandate for outdoors and all public areas.

Incoming travellers will also be required to have follow-up tests for COVID-19 on the second and fourth days after their arrival.

The restrictions will take effect Friday as the country braces for the expected impact of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, with the public health service already under pressure and intensive care space at more than 90% capacity.

“Due to the large amount of Christmas activity and crowded conditions that it creates, the mandatory use of masks is fully justified,” Health Minister Thanos Plevris said during a live-streamed presentation of the measures, which will remain in effect at least through January 3.

Based on vaccine appointment data, Plevris said the adult vaccination coverage would soon rise to 80%. Nearly 30% of Greece's population has already received a booster shot.

Earlier in December, Greek authorities approved vaccinating children aged 5 to 11 amid a surge in infections.

The explosion in cases also prompted Greek lawmakers to approve mandatory COVID-19 vaccination for people over 60 in response to a surge in cases.

If they do not get the vaccine by 16 January, they risk being fined €100 for every month they remain unvaccinated.

Germany will limit private gatherings to 10 people and close nightclubs ahead of the new year as the country faces a "massive fifth wave" of COVID-19 due to Omicron.

Large events such as football matches will be held without an audience as part of new restrictions that will come into effect on 28 December.

Restrictions already in place target mainly the unvaccinated, with proof of vaccination or recovery required to enter nonessential stores among other things. As of Sunday, UK tourists are banned from Germany.

The country’s national disease control centre, the Robert Koch Institute, added the UK to its list of “virus variant areas”. This means anyone travelling from the UK to Germany must present a negative PCR test no older than 48 hours and enter a mandatory quarantine for 14 days, regardless of their vaccination status.
The Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) shelter system received 122,000 migrant children who were taken into U.S. custody without their parents in fiscal year 2021, an all-time high that shattered previous records, according to new government figures obtained by CBS News.

In fiscal years 2016 and 2019, when the previous records were set, HHS received 59,000 and 69,000 unaccompanied migrant children, respectively, historical government statistics show. During a six-month period starting this March, more than 92,000 unaccompanied minors were transferred to HHS.

The record number of shelter transfers was fueled by the unprecedented arrival of 147,000 unaccompanied children to the U.S.-Mexico border in fiscal year 2021, which ended in October.
This year's historic child migration wave, which initially peaked in March before reaching a new all-time high in July, posed major logistical, humanitarian and political challenges for the Biden administration, which has declined to use a COVID-19 policy started under former President Donald Trump to expel unaccompanied minors.

"The program faced an unprecedented challenge at the beginning of this year," a senior official at the Office of Refugee Resettlement, the HHS agency that cares for unaccompanied children, told CBS News on Wednesday.

The official, who requested anonymity to discuss internal plans, said HHS is preparing for another potential sharp increase in arrivals of migrant children next year by expanding capacity at traditional shelters and identifying two sites in New Mexico and North Carolina that could be converted into emergency housing facilities.

Border arrivals of unaccompanied children have declined since the summer, but U.S. officials recorded processing nearly 14,000 migrant minors traveling without parents last month, the highest tally for any November in history. 
Just weeks after President Biden took office, HHS shelters reached their pandemic-era maximum capacity. By March, U.S. Border Patrol facilities, which are not designed to hold children beyond 72 hours, became dangerously overcrowded with unaccompanied minors whom HHS did not have the space to house. 

In response, the Biden administration converted more than a dozen convention centers, military installations, work camps and other facilities into "emergency intake sites" to quickly process and house the record number of children crossing the southern border illegally without their parents. It also reopened a dormant "influx" facility. 

The emergency HHS sites alleviated the severe overcrowding inside Border Patrol facilities. But they also highlighted the risks of placing migrant children in makeshift housing facilities that were not designed to house minors and lacked the standards of care enforced at traditional HHS shelters.

Conditions varied across the emergency sites. But two of them were abruptly closed in the spring, including a Houston warehouse where migrant girls reported being served undercooked food, having limited access to showers and a lack of outdoor recreation.

At the largest site, a tent complex inside the Fort Bliss Army base in Texas, migrant teens reported mental health distress, inadequate services and prolonged stays. Children there were constantly monitored for escape attempts, panic attacks and self-harm. After the conditions were publicly reported in June, HHS took remedial measures.

Most of the emergency sites have since closed, except for three facilities, including the Fort Bliss tent camp. There are no immediate plans to close the sites, the senior HHS official said, noting that one of them, a former work camp in Pecos, Texas, is being converted into a more permanent "influx" facility.

HHS has been making preparations to be able to open "influx" facilities at an academy campus in Greensboro, North Carolina, and a summer camp in Glorieta, New Mexico, if traditional shelter space is again depleted, the senior department official said.

The department also instituted several policies this year to expedite the placement of unaccompanied children with sponsors, typically family members residing in the U.S., reducing their average length of stay at HHS facilities to 30 days, down from the 102-day average in 2020.

More than 107,000 migrant children in HHS care were released to sponsors during fiscal year 2021, another record. The states with the highest number of placements were Texas, Florida, California and New York, which collectively received more than 45,000 unaccompanied children.

As of Wednesday, HHS had nearly 12,000 unaccompanied minors in its custody, a 46% drop from the record 22,500 children it was housing at one point in April. Roughly 2,800 children remained at the three emergency housing sites on Wednesday, according to internal HHS data.
Leecia Welch, a lawyer representing migrant children in a federal court case, said HHS should focus on speeding up the vetting of sponsors and expanding bed capacity at shelters and foster homes. Citing multiple visits, including to Fort Bliss, Welch called the emergency site system a "complete failure as a means of caring for traumatized children."

"We urge the government to do some deep soul searching and learn from past mistakes — especially around the need for more foster homes for immigrant children," said Welch, a lead counsel at the New York-based Children's Rights group.

HHS next year will also need to address Republican-led states' objections to the resettlement of unaccompanied minors. Texas and Florida both announced measures this year to restrict state child-welfare licenses for HHS shelters housing migrant children, prompting the Biden administration to consider federal licensing.

The vast majority of the migrant children who entered HHS custody this past fiscal year hailed from Central America. According to the figures, 47% were from Guatemala, 32% from Honduras and 13% from El Salvador. Mexican children accounted for just 1% of the unaccompanied minors transferred to HHS facilities.

Nearly three-quarters of all migrant children placed in HHS custody this past fiscal year were teens between the ages of 15 and 17, the statistics show. 13- and 14-year-olds accounted for 13% of minors who entered HHS care, while the remaining 16% were 12 or younger, a group the government calls "tender age" children.

Roughly two-thirds of the unaccompanied minors sent to HHS-overseen housing facilities in fiscal year 2021 were boys, according to the data. Girls comprised 34% of transfers to HHS.

Migration experts said the historic number of unaccompanied minors taken in U.S. custody this year was partly driven by persistent conditions in some Central America communities, including crushing poverty, hunger, lack of economic opportunities, violence and displacement caused by natural disasters. 

Mr. Biden's election, as well as some policy changes announced by his administration, also led smugglers to tell migrant youth they had a better chance of being allowed to stay in the U.S. than they had under Trump, the experts said.

Another potent push factor is a desire for family reunification. Over 80% of unaccompanied children who enter U.S. care have family members in the U.S., many of whom are also undocumented, according to government estimates.

"A lot of children in northern Central American countries have parents or other family members here. And they want to be with their families, which is a very human thing," said Essey Workie, a Migration Policy Institute researcher who studies U.S. policies that affect unaccompanied minors.
Omicron is already changing how medicine fights COVID-19.

Although it only became widespread across the United States in the past week, doctors, pharmacists and drug companies said they need different tools against the new variant. 

Two well-used monoclonal antibodies are unlikely to be effective against omicron. In their place, the government accelerated authorization of an antiviral that can be taken right after diagnosis to prevent illnesses from becoming severe.

The Food and Drug Administration on Wednesday authorized use of Pfizer's Paxlovid, a series of pills, taken at home that prevent nearly 90% of severe COVID-19 among those at high risk. 

"As we face omicron, the nation's medicine cabinet of treatments gives us more options to protect the American people," said Jeff Zients, the White House Coronavirus Response Coordinator. "We have tools to keep people safe and we will continue to use them."

The challenge will be to get Paxlovid to the people who need it.

The drug takes 6 to 8 months to manufacture, and though deliveries will begin almost immediately, only 265,000 treatment courses will be available through the end of January, Zients said in a Wednesday news conference.
COVID-19 infections have climbed 25% in the past week, and some project a huge increase in cases over the next few weeks, perhaps exceeding the surge this time last year. Although omicron may cause less severe disease than its predecessors, many high-risk people are likely to become infected. 

The Paxlovid approval is particularly welcome, a number of doctors said, because their main tool to keep people out of the hospital has been rendered useless by omicron.

"In New York, we've stopped scheduling monoclonal infusions," said Dr. Daniel Griffin, chief of infectious diseases for ProHealth Care, which provides services at 300 locations in and around New York City.

Monoclonal antibodies, drugs derived from people whose immune systems successfully fought off COVID-19, have been extremely effective at keeping high-risk infected people from developing severe disease. But now that drug and a similar one from Eli Lilly, which both target the spike protein on the surface of the virus, aren't expected to work against the heavily mutated omicron variant.
Griffin said his colleagues are scrambling to get sufficient doses of a third monoclonal antibody, sotrovimab, which targets a different spot on the virus and appears to still work against omicron but is in short supply.

"We have maybe 2,000 doses in all of downstate New York," he said, noting he may have to decide whether to give his share of those sotrovimab doses to high-risk patients who have not been vaccinated, or to those who received two or three shots but may not be fully protected because of weakened immunity. 
"We don't have enough – not to keep up with the numbers (of new cases)," said Dr. Rajesh Gandhi, an infectious disease specialist at Massachusetts General Hospital. "One thing we're deeply concerned about – the number of patients is going up so quickly – as to whether there's going to be enough sotrovimab to keep up is uncertain."

GlaxoSmithKline, which makes the drug along with Vir Biotechnology, is "working with urgency and exploring options to expand our supply capacity," according to spokesperson Kathleen Quinn.
On Nov. 18, Pfizer announced it had agreed to provide 10 million doses of Paxlovid to the U.S. government for $5.3 billion or $530 a dose. Zients said the government is working with Pfizer to increase the volume and reduce the drug's manufacturing time.

Five leading pharmacists groups complained to the FDA Wednesday that they should be allowed to prescribe Paxlovid, just as they order and dispense other oral drugs and deliver COVID-19 shots.

"Time is of the essence. Requiring patients to make an appointment with another prescriber just to get a prescription that their pharmacist will fill adds time, cost, and inconvenience but most concerning of all, it could cause hospitalizations and even deaths," the groups argued.

In authorizing Paxlovid Wednesday, the FDA did not provide a similar authorization for a different antiviral, molnupiravir, from Merck.

An FDA advisory committee last month narrowly recommended authorizing that antiviral, but it is far less effective at keeping people out of the hospital – just 30% instead of 89%. Several committee members said they would reconsider their recommendation if another antiviral option were available.
The FDA has not signed off on the committee's recommendation, and it's unclear when that drug will receive authorization. 

Doctors and pharmacists are less enthusiastic about molnupiravir than Paxlovid, but said they would consider it if they had no other option.

"There are a lot of question marks still to answer, however, If I had nothing else to provide to a patient that was at high risk, that's a risk-reward discussion with a patient," said Michael Ganio, senior director of Pharmacy Practice and Quality at the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists. "That decision may lean in favor of molnupiravir if it was available."

Convalescent plasma might also be useful to help keep infected people out of the hospital, a team from Johns Hopkins University said Tuesday. Although the blood product has been controversial and shown ineffective among hospitalized patients, it reduced hospitalizations by 50% in a trial of 1,200 volunteers, half of whom received a placebo. 

Researchers from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins Hospital and Johns Hopkins University Medical School, said convalescent plasma should be part of the toolkit for keeping people out of the hospital and encouraged the FDA to quickly authorize the blood product.
Convalescent plasma, derived from the blood of recently infected or vaccinated people, contains natural antibodies that can help fight off infection, they said.

While the blood product may be effective, Griffin and Ganio both said they worry about how feasible it will be to deliver convalescent plasma in the midst of an outbreak. Also, the plasma will likely be derived from people who have been recently vaccinated, Griffin noted, which might pose an ethical problem for people who oppose vaccination.

Meanwhile, hospitals in Los Angeles, "are getting slowly packed" with COVID-19 patients, Shapiro said. "It looks very closely like what we saw in December last year."

The parents of actor Alicia Witt were found dead inside their Worcester, Massachusetts, home Monday night after she called a relative to check on them.

Witt, a singer/songwriter, actress and author, said in a written statement that she had not heard back from her parents, Robert and Diane Witt, for several days. 

"I reached out to a cousin who lives close to my parents to check on them. Sadly, the outcome was unimaginable," she wrote. "I ask for some privacy at this time to grieve and to wrap my head around this turn of events, and this surreal loss." 

The deaths of the couple, found inside their Sussex Lane home Monday night, are not suspicious but the cause of their demise is a mystery, police said.
Police were called to the home shortly after 9 p.m. by a family member who requested assistance in checking on the couple, Worcester police said.

Once inside the home, the officers found the couple deceased. There were no obvious signs of a cause of death, police said. 

"There was no trauma," Lt. Sean Murtha said.

Police listed Diane Witt as being 75 and Robert Witt as 87.
There were reports that the couple had been experiencing furnace problems and were using a space heater, police said.

Firefighters were summoned and checked the air quality inside the home but found that no noxious gases were present, Worcester Fire Deputy Chief Adam Roche said.

"There were no signs of carbon monoxide," Roche said.

A neighbor said the couple were rarely seen outside the home and that she believed they had been ill for sometime.

She said many neighbors had offered them help as their home fell into disrepair, but they politely refused. One neighbor had been mowing the lawn and clearing snow from the property for a few years, she said.
Police said the state medical examiner will perform autopsies to determine a cause of death.

The couple have two children, Ian Witt and Alicia Witt. She recently released a new album and published a book.

Her career has included recent roles in “Orange Is the New Black,” “Nashville,” “Twin Peaks” and “Twin Peaks: The Return,” “The Walking Dead,” "Two Weeks Notice," "88 Minutes" and “Mr. Holland’s Opus.”

Diane Witt was a celebrity in her own right in the1980s when her hair, which was more than 10 feet long, earned her a spot in the Guinness Book of World Records. Reports from that time indicate that her husband and children helped her maintain her tresses, which she wore braided and piled atop her head.

Diane Witt home-schooled the couple's children and Robert was a science teacher at Burncoat Middle School.

The tornadoes that devastated Kentucky and four other states captured nationwide attention for their destructive power and the loss of 91 lives – 76 deaths in Kentucky alone, with 1,000 properties destroyed. There’s been an outpouring of sympathy and help from ordinary folks and financial aid from federal agencies.

Now, as the shock recedes and the country's focus turns elsewhere, the hard labor of cleanup and rebuilding begins.

Depending on the damage, complete recovery could take "months to years," says Ken Farris, deputy director of rebuilding operations for Team Rubicon, a nonprofit disaster relief organization that’s working in some of the hardest-hit areas in Kentucky.
For residents, it's an extremely difficult process. "Most people are overwhelmed," says Farris.

He speaks from personal experience. "My own house got hit by Hurricane Ike in 2008 and it was very overwhelming," he says. "The organizations that come in and give assistance provide a great relief to people, especially in the immediate aftermath."

Even with outside help, recovery priorities "are driven by local entities," says Art delaCruz, Team Rubicon CEO. "We coordinate with them to make sure we're aiding their mission."
“Until the locals have the missing accounted for, it'll be search and rescue,” says Jeffrey Byard, vice president of operations for Team Rubicon. "That will have priority."

That means clearing key roads, to give firefighters and emergency medical teams access to damaged structures.

After assessing the scene, cleanup crews start by "clearing the access or doing the initial row clearance, to get in relief supplies and equipment," Byard says. "Heavy debris is removed, so you can continue the search and rescue mission."

Workers with chainsaws cut up fallen trees for removal. Bulldozers, front-end loaders, backhoes, and smaller units called skid steer loaders are used to clear a path.

"You're going to have to move a lot of trees and bushes and some building debris," Byard says.

But instead of immediately restoring roads to pre-tornado condition, "You need heavy equipment to push what you need out of the road, onto the side, and open at least a lane of traffic for first responders," Byard says.
As roads are cleared, residents accounted for, and amounts of damage are assessed, the work of removing debris begins.

Though procedures differ from state to state, towns and cities usually remove debris from public areas. Private property owners are responsible for their own areas, but officials remove items that present a public danger. Residents do the work themselves or hire contractors.
Recovery workers also attempt to stabilize homes that remain.

"That might be putting plywood on a hole in the roof, or boarding up a window that got blown out because of debris in the tornado," says delaCruz. "It might be allowing the homeowner access by cutting down trees that are across their driveway."

Stabilized houses are fully repaired later.
Rebuilding can range anywhere from constructing new houses to repairing damaged ones, Farris says. It hinges on the extent of the damage.

"It depends on where the house was in relation to the tornado," Farris says. "If the house took a direct hit, it's probably going to have to be rebuilt from scratch, from the ground up. If the foundation hasn't been affected, you can rebuild on it."

If the house is more on the fringes of the tornado, "it may just need a new roof or a wall rebuilt," Farris says.

Sales of previously owned homes in November rose 1.9% from October to 6.46 million units, according to the National Association of Realtors’ seasonally adjusted count. Sales were 2.0% lower than November 2020.

These sales reflect home closings, so contracts that were likely signed in September and October.

Regionally, month-to-month, sales in the Northeast were unchanged. In the Midwest, they rose 0.7% and in the South they rose 2.9%. In the West, sales increased 2.3%.

Sales likely increased due to a strengthening job market and concerns among potential buyers that mortgage rates will be significantly higher next year, according to the NAR’s chief economist Lawrence Yun.

There were 1.11 million homes for sale at the end of November, down 13% year over year. At the current sales pace that represents a 2.1-month supply.

“New listings are coming on the market, but they are being snatched up quickly,” said Yun, who added that he expects to see a further decline in inventory in December.

That tight supply continued to put upward pressure on home prices. The median price of an existing home sold in November was $353,900. That is a 13.9% gain from November of 2020. Price gains are slowing from earlier annual gains of about 20%.

Sales were stronger in the more expensive categories, with homes priced between $750,000 and $1 million rising 37% year over year and those priced above $1 million rising 50%. Comparatively, homes priced between $100,000 and $250,000 fell 19%. Supply is leanest on the lower end of the market.

The market is also moving very quickly, with the average days a home stays on the market just 18 days.

The share of sales to first-time buyers was just 26%, down from 32% in November of 2020. The share of sales to investors was 15%, up from 14% the year before.

Mortgage rates did not help buyers much either. While rates are still low historically, the average rate on the popular 30-year fixed mortgage started September at 2.92% and ended October at 3.22%, according to Mortgage News Daily. That took away significant purchasing power, especially for entry-level or first-time buyers.

“The prospect of higher interest rates in 2022 is accelerating the decision for buyers in an otherwise slower season,” said George Ratiu, senior economist at Realtor.com. “However, the low number of homes for sale remains the principal challenge, stumping both existing homeowners looking for their next house and first-time buyers seeking a place to call their own.”

When Tyreek Kasim graduated from sixth form in the summer of 2020 with straight As and decided to turn down a place at university to apply for an apprenticeship, the last thing he expected was to wind up jobless and ground down by the system.

But this is exactly what the 19-year-old from Hounslow endured before his luck changed after doing a course at City Gateway, one of the charities we are funding to make jobless young people work ready as part of our £1 million Skill Up Step Up campaign in partnership with Barclays LifeSkills.

Tyreek said: “I began my job hunt last summer feeling buoyant and that because of my grades, it would be a breeze. I searched on UCAS and the GetMyFirstJob website and started applying for five apprenticeships a week, focusing on business, finance and digital marketing. I couldn’t wait to start earning and learning.”

But it was the first summer of Covid and, as the rejections piled up, Tyreek began to worry.

“I made around 60 applications over three months and scored just two five-minute phone interviews — one with an accounting firm, who said my maths C for GCSE was too low, another with Lloyds Bank, who also turned me down. For months I was in my bedroom burrowing away making applications getting more and more discouraged. Many of my peers had gone to uni and I felt left behind.
 “I started to realise that my lack of work experience in a professional environment put me at a real disadvantage. You never see or speak to another human, so you have no real sense of why you’re not succeeding. It’s soul destroying.”

One day, Tyreek’s mother spotted an eight-week employability course run by City Gateway in east London. It would mean a commute but it included work experience, so he decided to give it a go.

It was the moment things shifted. Tyreek said: “I was put on a course with 11 young people who had been repeatedly rejected, just like me, and it gave me strength because I felt I was part of a cohort that was resilient. I was learning useful presentation skills and how to make my emails look more professional.

“Suddenly, instead of constant failure, I was seeing chinks of light — and then came a breakthrough when I landed a digital marketing traineeship.”

But after that ended, Tyreek again found himself at a loose end. “City Gateway kept calling to encourage me to keep applying and I felt seen and cared for,” he said.
 That got Tyreek into the final round which involved a full day of interviews and tasks for the eight short-listed candidates, including devising a series of social media posts.

“A few days later, I got a text from my City Gateway coach who said, ‘Congrats, you’re the new face of the BBC’. I was ecstatic.”

Tyreek started as a BBC social media assistant in September and will be paid, he said, more than £20,000 a year. It’s a six-month contract with BBC Global News at Television Centre in Shepherd’s Bush and he hopes it will lead to more work at the BBC.

“I am loving the job,” he said.

Charlotte Moore, business co-ordinator for BBC Global News, said: “Tyreek is a fantastic colleague and I’m delighted with the significant contribution he is making to the team. He has shown real enthusiasm and City Gateway have been superb partners throughout.”

Ms Moore added that they would be taking on more City Gateway apprentices in 2022. “Our Springboard programme has now welcomed many people who might otherwise not have got the opportunity to work in the media.

Being able to work with people with different perspectives and experiences is a huge benefit for businesses, and we’re delighted to expand this programme and we are committed to hiring more apprentices in the future.”

Asked what advice he would give to jobless young people, Tyreek said: “Don’t sit at home alone like I did because there are great organisations out there like City Gateway that can help. And never give up. There will be one opportunity out there with your name on it.”

A momentous week of diplomacy is about to get under way in Europe, with the fate of Ukraine, hemmed in by 100,000 Russian troops, hanging in the balance.

Senior diplomats from the US and Russia will meet in Geneva on Sunday and Monday to discuss Moscow’s demands, set out last month in two draft treaties, one with the US and one with Nato. Much of their content is unacceptable to Washington and the alliance, most importantly a pledge that Ukraine will never be a Nato member.

The Biden administration insists that sovereign states’ right to apply for Nato membership is non-negotiable. Nor are US troop deployments in Europe, administration officials have stressed on the eve of the talks. They said, however, that Washington would discuss other security guarantees, such as mutual limits on missile deployments on the continent. That would fall far short of the comprehensive changes Moscow is demanding.
Few if any diplomatic observers expect a quick deal to resolve the crisis this week, but the opposite - a complete breakdown - is possible. It should quickly become apparent whether Russia is interested in negotiating over its proposals or whether they were designed to be rejected, creating a pretext for a war Vladimir Putin has already decided on.

“Lower your expectations and then lower them some more,” said Melinda Haring, the deputy director of the Eurasia Center at the Atlantic Council. “Watch Moscow’s demands in the meetings. If Russia insists that Nato cannot expand ever again, we will know that Moscow is preparing for war in Ukraine, since this is a red line for the west.”

The two sides in Geneva will be led by veteran negotiators, the US deputy secretary of state, Wendy Sherman, and her Russian counterpart, Sergei Ryabkov, accompanied by senior officials from their respective defence departments and militaries. The negotiations are scheduled to begin on Monday, but officials said there would be a less formal meeting between the two delegations on Sunday evening.

US officials insist that Sherman and her team will only discuss the bilateral elements of Russia’s proposals, and not anything in which other countries have a sovereign stake. The mantra to Kiev and Nato capitals is: “Nothing about you without you.”
The negotiating teams will move to Brussels on Wednesday for a session of the Nato-Russia Council, in which all 30 alliance members will take part. It will be the first such meeting since 2019 of the council, which was established in 2002 to defuse tensions and build consensus.

The next day there will be a meeting in Vienna of the permanent council of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), chaired by Poland. Representatives will be on a more junior, ambassadorial level than the Nato session the previous day. It will, however, be imbued with particular significance because it will include non-Nato European states such as Finland and Sweden, who are contemplating their future in light of Russia‘s pressure on Ukraine. Finnish leaders in particular have hinted heavily in the past few days they might look anew at Nato membership.

“We believe that after bilateral talks with the United States and then the Nato format, it is possible that in this wider forum, some developments are possible,” Nikodem Rachoń, the spokesman for the Polish embassy in Warsaw, said.

Washington says the US-Russia meeting in Geneva will primarily be an opportunity to present positions rather than resolve them.

“On Monday we will listen to Russia explain its proposals and the underlying concerns motivating them. We will respond and share our own concerns,” a senior administration official said. “Hopefully it will result in identifying a few bilateral issues where there is enough common ground to continue discussions.”

It is not clear whether either Sherman or Ryabkov have been empowered to put new ideas on the table. “They will talk about the Russian posture, they will talk about stability,” said a European diplomat briefed on US preparations. “They will talk about the Russian demands and explain why they’re not acceptable, and they will lay out some queries of our own about European stability and Russian actions.”